Just to go through a pretty quick agenda here, we'll just go through some introductions and
we'll have our awesome presentation by Nathan Stephens and then a lot of time for Q&A and
just some open discussion and networking amongst the group too. But I do just want to make
sure I note that it is being recorded and the session will be shared up to YouTube for
anybody who missed it or if you want to go back and check it out again. But for anyone
who's joining this group for the first time, this is a friendly and open meetup environment
for teams to share the work that they're doing within their organizations. Also teams from
RStudio to share some of the work that we're doing, teach lessons, learn, network with
each other, but really just allow us all to learn from each other. So thank you all for
making this a welcoming community. And if you do ever have suggestions or general feedback,
I'll share a form at the end as well. But we will have a Slido link for any questions
that you have during the talk. So if you don't want to be part of the recording as well,
you could also ask anonymous questions there too. But I'll share that in just a minute.
But with that, I would love to introduce our speaker, Nathan Stevens. So Nathan will
be presenting on scaling spreadsheets with R. Nathan is an enterprise architect here
at RStudio and has a background in analytic solutions and consulting and experience building
data science team, architecting analytic infrastructure, and also delivering innovative data products.
So with that, I will stop my share, Nathan, and turn it over to you.
Great. Thanks, Rachel. It's a real honor to be doing this. And I appreciate you, Rachel,
setting this up. And thanks, Maria, for getting this going and being the inspiration here.
Really appreciate the opportunity. Hopefully, I don't... I value everyone's time. I have
a lot of people on the call. And so I want to make sure that you walk away with some
information, some new ideas, something useful that you can take with you. And if you can't,
I'm going to try to entertain you to some extent. So if there's nothing here new, at
least maybe there are a few laughs along the way. I should lower the bar a lot because
I'm not great at it. So you're going to have to look for the humor. But I've done data
science for a while, and I'm sure if you combine all the years here, it'd be hundreds
or thousands of years probably in doing data analysis, right? And in preparing for this
presentation, one of the first things I did was open up Excel and start putting ideas
in for my topic about why you should use R beyond just Excel, right? So I'm actually
in Excel doing work about things about R. So that clued me in on like, okay, where are
we here? We're in this world where Excel is ubiquitous. It's everywhere. It's built, you
know... Oh, you know, I was going to give... I was going to pull in this old video about
from VisiCalc days, right? Where a guy says, like, they show him VisiCalc, and they literally
open up the wallet. They're like, we will pay you anything for VisiCalc, right? So that's
back in the 70s, I think. So spreadsheets have been here for a long time. They're not
going away. They're incredibly useful, like I said. I used them to prepare for this presentation.
What I want to do is kind of give an overview of this relationship with programming languages.
So with that, let me share my screen, and we'll get started. Excel is not the problem.
PowerPoint is the problem. If you want to see the knives come out, let's talk PowerPoint.
Then the knives come out. Yeah. So this will be a friendly discussion. All right. Let's
get into spreadsheets with R. Why do we use... Why are we using Excel? We use Excel for a
lot of things, right? But, you know, in R, we have this notion of wrangling, visualizing,
communicating insights about data, which is the exact same thing that you're doing with
Excel, right? So this is a very business intelligence-like mindset, right? And a lot of this presentation
is about, like, you know, making decisions, influencing, you know, taking actions, seeing
results, right, in a business setting, right? You can use Excel to build a wedding list
too, and some people at RStudio have used R to build their wedding lists. They will go
unnamed, but I know who they are. In general, we're going to be talking about businesses,
right? So there's a nice overlap here between what you're actually doing in the BI world
between Excel and R, and a lot of other languages, a lot of other tools as well, like, you know,
QuickSense or Tableau or, you know, or MATLAB or SAS, right? So anyway, we're on familiar
territory. However, if you've used Excel to any extent, you know that you end up with
some problems. If your Dilbert's boss is saying, did you see any errors on the spreadsheet?
And he's like, only three. What are they? Your data, your format, and your formulas,
right? So we know that as you use these spreadsheets, you know, you kind of run into some problems,
and that's where I want to talk about how R can address some of those problems. I'm
going to actually focus on two problems today. The first one is file size, okay? So Excel
handles kilobytes and megabytes, no problem, right? When you start getting into, like,
the gigabytes, right, and tens of gigabytes, like, lots of problems, right, it becomes
much more difficult. And introducing large amounts of data to Excel is kind of like a
fireball for me. And this cartoon actually represents both sides of my personality as
I get into large Excel files, right? Are the coals hot? Yes, they're very hot. I'm just
about to put on the hamburgers. Before you do, could you toss in a can of lighter fluid
and make a giant fireball? And I've got the most boring data in the world, right? So when
I, like, try to blow up an Excel spreadsheet, it's like that, you know, fireball. But there's
this other actor in my head going, yeah, you don't want to do this, Calvin. Like, this
is not a good idea, right? So Excel does have some hard limits. So in a spreadsheet,
a spreadsheet is limited by a million rows and 16, 17,000 columns, right? Hard limits,
good luck pushing on that wall, right? There's some softer limits, too, around, like, the
memory limitations, like I said earlier. Megabytes, sweet spot, right? Tens of megabytes, no problem.
Start getting to hundreds of megabytes, a little more difficult, right? And then you
talk about, like, tens of gigabytes. That's a no-go. Like, that's no bueno, right? Like,
it's not going to be good, at least for the Excel spreadsheet. Now, I have to be careful
because I know there's some real pros out there that are more advanced in Excel than
I am. And we're going to talk about that, right? We're going to talk about that. That's
what's coming up. So just hold your fire, okay? So the second problem I want to talk
about is complexity, right? And complexity, this is a nebulous topic, right? I'm taking
a multidimensional space. I'm putting it into one latent factor called complexity, right?
And I'm going to define complexity for my own purposes in this presentation. But I think
there's some intuitive appeal here, too, because, like, I pulled this right off XKCD, right?
The most complicated thing on the planet is a sprawling Excel spreadsheet built up over
20 years by a church group in Nebraska coordinating their scheduling. We've all seen it. We've
all seen that spreadsheet, right? That's complicated. But let's put a little bit more
meat on the bones and say, what are we talking about by complexity? Well, I think if you
have, I think a simple workbook looks something like this, right? It's like a single data
source, some summary statistics. It's no data updates. It's got a few functions that are
easy to understand. Maybe you throw in a dropdown list for, you know, fancy, you know, use case
show off a little bit. You have a couple pivot tables and just a handful of sheets, maybe
just one, right? Or maybe, you know, six or seven, not too many. A complex workbook,
but by contrast, would be many data sources with advanced algorithms built into it somehow,
right? And then dynamically updating the data on a regular basis with, you know, formulas
to get F2 and, like, the thing drops down, fills up half the screen. All the formulas
are nested, like, seven times over. There's visual basic scripts running in the background.
You've got several pivot tables or charts, and they're all sharing data. So they're all
kind of, like, linked to the same spreadsheet. And you've got, you know, maybe dozens or
hundreds of spreadsheets. Like, those things are terrifying, right? You open up the spreadsheet,
you're like, there's no end to the number of spreadsheets in this workbook. That's complicated,
right? So that's what I mean by complex, right? There's this wide spectrum, right? You can
kind of fill in the blanks. So why scale spreadsheets with R? Well, R can handle far more data than
Excel. So in Excel, the sweet spot's really in that megabyte range. In R, the sweet spot's
in the gigabyte range, right? So, like, handling a gigabyte or a 10 gigabytes, no problem in
R. No problem at all. R can also handle much more complexity than Excel because it's code
based, right? So a complex workbook in Excel equals a simple script in R. So I'm going
to come back to this previous slide here for a second. So this complex workbook over here
in this other column, that is what we call a simple R script, right? So that's simple
for R. In fact, that's why you want to use R because R's really good at these things,
right? So I'm going to show that in my demonstration that R actually can do these things really
quite easily. So simple in R equals complex in Excel. All right. So if you put these two
dimensions on two axes, right, and you say, I've got a simple design, a complex design,
and on one, and small size and large size on the other axis, then Excel fits neatly,
in my opinion, my estimation, around these small file sizes with simple designs. No problem.
That's great. That's why I was using them to prepare for this presentation. I was actually
inputting the data, right, to Excel. So that's great. Pull it up, put some data in there
and monkey around. Beautiful. When things get really complicated or really large, so
we're thinking like that previous thing, like multiple levels and data sources and
update, all this stuff, right? I would argue R is really good at that, right? And can you
use Excel in that world? Yeah, yeah. I mean, yeah, I've seen some really creative uses,
but R is really good at that. I don't really want to talk about these quadrants any more
than I already have. What I really want to talk about is the off-diagonals. I want to
talk about where, when you have something that's fairly small file size, but very complicated,
like when would you think about using R instead of Excel? And when you have something that's
really large file size, but it's a very, very simple data structure, just like one table
that's just a little too big, like where do you think about using R in that dimension?
So I'm very interested in this boundary, right? And defining this boundary. At least
that's what this talk is about. It's like, what does this boundary look like? When does
it make sense to start thinking about maybe leaving the Excel world and trying some functions
in R? So that's what we're going to talk about today. I've got two problems I'm going to
show you. And the first one, in each quadrant, the first one is going to be where the files
are too large, but the design is very, very simple. So I have to stop this presentation.
Okay, so the first data we're going to use is popular baby names from the Social Security
Administration that are state-specific. This is a zipped file. If I click on this, it'll
start downloading. You can see I've downloaded it four times, right? It's 21 megabytes, right?
It downloads very quickly. And if you open it up, it looks something like that. It's
like this. Names by state. This is the zip here. You can zip it. It's got 50 files in
Washington, D.C. And if you open up Arkansas, for example, you get this file, right? Pretty
straightforward. You can open these up into Excel, which I did. And this is what it looks
like in Excel. Okay, so here's Arkansas. And I loaded up every single state into Excel.
And I did some Googling about, like, how to do that the best. And I came to the conclusion
it's probably just easiest if I just do this by hand. It took somewhere between five and
ten minutes to load everything in to every state. Now, all of these things are fine for
each state because they all fit. So if I come over here to Arkansas, you can see that there
was about 30,000 names, something like that, 30,000 names. No problem, right? But there's
a lot of issues here right off the bat, right? So the first issue I already mentioned. I
had to, like, load them all up. That was kind of a pain. But one-time cost, right? So that's
done. But now I don't have any headers. So I need to go back and I want to put the headers
in. Now I've got to put headers into 50 files. And that's a pain. I didn't bother to do that
because that sounds like a nightmare waiting to happen. When I put all the data together,
yeah, it was 21 megabytes zipped. But when it was unzipped, it was 128 megabytes. And that's
what it is in the Excel file, too. It's around 128 megabytes. And that's large enough to get
the spinning wheel on the auto-updates that require you to hit the escape on the cancel.
Because I'll be using it and then I'll just stop, you know, working. Then you've got things
like, you know, the pivot tables here are, you know, one state at a time. That seems to be
okay. Except I found something really interesting in this process. When I got to California, I
was looking for names. And it turns out this drop-down menu has a list, a cap of about 10,000
names. And in California, there's 20,000 names in this thing. So I can just get up to carry. And
then I can't get beyond that, right? So that's frustrating. And I'm just starting to hit some
rough edges here. But the real hard edge is, like, I don't really want to do this state-based. I
want to combine everything and then analyze across states. And this thing is over 6 million
records long. It's not going to fit into a worksheet, right? So I have to figure out some other
way to handle it. Now, there are many ways to handle it. I mentioned before you've got BI tools,
right? You've got other programming languages. You can pull out Python if you want to. But this
is not a talk about Python. This is a talk about R. So I want to show you what this would look like
in R. So again, one of the big issues here is I can't load all the data into R. Let me show you
what it looks like just to load in one state. I come into import data set. So if you've never
seen RStudio, I don't know if anyone is new to RStudio, but this is RStudio, right? You get the
R prompt down low, your R script up high. You've got some tools over here on the right. So I'm
going to go ahead and read in the data. I'm going to browse through the data. I'm going to go
here. I'm going to pull up Arkansas again. And I keep saying Arkansas. Is AK Alaska? AK is Alaska,
isn't it? So I should know better. I've been to Alaska. I've never been to Arkansas. Okay. So
we're going to pull up Alaska. And notice the headers are off, right? We don't have a header in
there. So we're going to get rid of the headers. Okay. Good. Now we just have generic headers.
This is messed up, too, right? This is supposed to be male, female. The F in the female, the
computer thinks it's a false for some reason. So we're going to change this to character. There
you go. Now you're male, female. And you can see it actually wrote the code for me over here,
right? It just did it all for me, which is really nice. So I'll go ahead and do an import. There
you go. And there's my code. So I can get that code in there really easily. And I can do some
fun things. Like I can do let's do I can filter this thing. I can say I want to filter AK, which
is the name of the data set. And I'll say like name equals Jesse. Okay. What did I do wrong? Oh,
because there's no name. There's no headers on this one. So it's got to be X4. Okay. So there's my
filter data set. And I can plot it if I want to. I can do a ggplot. And I can do some statics here. I
want to do year, which is X3 by count, which is X5. And I want to do a line plot. There you go. There's a
line plot. Now it looks different than the one that we did in Excel, because Excel one actually had
categorical names on the axis, right? So we have to fix that, right? These years are not say it goes
from 1923 to 1926 in the same increments that it went from 1992 to 1993. So this is a more accurate
view of the data, right? Okay. So this is great. So I can come in here and kind of tool around a
little bit and do a few little R things to like, you know, manipulate my data. But that wasn't my
hard edge. My hard edge was reading all the data. So let me read in all the data. And the way I do that, I'm
going to use the Vroom package, because the Vroom package makes this really easy. It's a very good
package for like loading in lots of data. So if you have like many gigabytes, that's great. If you just
have 128, it's going to be lightning fast. I'm going to go ahead and grab all the files in that directory.
So these are all the files. And the Vroom command says just take the files and take the column and add a
column header, right? So I don't have to like do that 50 times. That's a really simple command. Let's go
ahead and see what Vroom gives us. So it says that we have 6,000 records, right? Five columns. And this
tells me about those columns. And I can, you know, I can take a look at that if I want to, or I can save
this. So I'm actually going to write this back to file. I'm going to write this as a CSV. Won't take too
long. It's cranking away. Great. Piece of cake, right? Super fast, super easy. No problem. I now have one
file that's concatenated to all of them. No mistakes in the code, because I wouldn't do any copying and
pasting, right? It's a simple concatenation. Say, well, hey, I can do concatenation of files in any number of
ways, right? It's like, yes, yes, you can. But here's the thing. Like, we're just going to make, we're going to
jump right into some exploratory data analysis. Now, one thing that Excel has that R doesn't have is this
notion of notebooks, right? So notebooks are formats that contain the pros and the code and the results of
the code all in the same document. And they're really useful because it lets you keep track of your thought
process, right? So if you go back later, you can see why, what you were thinking of doing, which is why it's
called a notebook, right? So Leonardo da Vinci was famous for his notebooks, you know, back in the day.
They're still popular today. And so this is what an R notebook looks like. This is, oh, that's my speaker
notes. Yes, that's right. I was going to show you my speaker notes, because this is where we come into, yeah.
So here's my data analysis I showed you, and then the files. So I wrote a notebook to keep track of my speaker
notes, right? And you're seeing the process that I went through to do this. There's the room, right, that we
just did. And then we get to this one here. So I put in a Spaceballs. If you've ever seen Spaceballs, they get to
the now situation, where they're looking at the movie in real time. And he says, you're looking at now.
Everything that happens now is happening now, right? And Rick Moranis says, this is now. What happened to then?
And he says, we passed them. When? Now. When will then be now? Soon, right? So that's coming soon.
All right. So let me show you the notebook I really wanted to show you. So here's the setup. I can load my
packages in here. Now, for the people who haven't used R for a while, you might already have some preferences for
how you load in your data. I've showed you two here already. The read CSV is part of the read R package.
The room package is really cool. It's part of the tidyverse. There's this other really popular one called
fread, right? And fread is lightning fast. It's super good. So you just pick which one you want, right?
There's more than that. But these are three of the most popular ones. If you have lots of data, these become
really important distinctions, right? Okay. So now I'm going to do my data analysis.
Now, I just want to backtrack for one second back to this graphic here. Come back here.
When you go into this larger file size area where data becomes large-ish, almost universally you're going to
default back to something that's like SQL, no matter what tool you're using. It's going to look very SQL-like, right?
And that's no different with R. So in R, I'm going to use a tool called dplyr. And dplyr looks like SQL because it
uses the notion of verbs. And this is what that looks like, right? So I've got a filter statement instead of a
where, right? I have a group by statement, a summarize statement, which is like, you know, the aggregate, you
know, variables in the select statement or the window variables. And then I do actually have a select statement
here at the end, right? So this is how you would manipulate data. Very SQL-like way of doing the data.
So we'll go ahead and run that code. I don't think there's much of an output there. And now we'll just kind of
monkey around a little bit. We'll look at most popular names from 1996 and what happened to the most popular
names, right? Uh-oh. Now what's going on? Well, that would not be a surprise without a live demo without some
error. Okay. That must be a bug in the visual editor. So I've been this is what the documents typically look
like in R Markdown and R Notebooks. This is the default view. What I was showing you earlier was what is a new
feature called the visual editor. So you can kind of toggle between these two. The visual editor is formatted.
It's going to give you a more like Jupyter Notebook feel to it. And for some reason, it's not showing me my output.
So the way you solve this is you refresh your session and start over. But I'm just going to go ahead and stick with
the old Notebook, I think, here. We'll just stick with the old version. There you go. Most popular names from 1996,
which is Emily, Jessica, Matthew, and Michael. And then if you look at the most popular names leading up in 2020,
last year, the most popular names were Ava, Emma, Liam, Noah, Oliver, and Olivia. Man, Olivia, just going strong.
Just going strong. Okay. So yeah, and this shows you the run-up. So Olivia is this purple line, right? And you can see
it's been going strong for quite a while. I've been talking to her name. All right. And then you can look at these
shared names, right? So I'm going to take a look at these names that maybe are shared by both. They're multi-gendered names.
Nathan, just a quick question. Would you be able to enlarge the font size a little bit?
Oh, is it kind of small? How's that?
Thank you. And then while I'm asking you questions, one other question, because I know it's on a lot of people's minds,
is will you share this script with us after?
Yeah. It's on GitHub already. It's in the notes. And yeah, it's all there for you.
Cool. Thank you.
Okay. So basically you get to this and you're like, okay, this is cool. I might have something to say about this.
I want to do something. So I'm going to build an application. This is a Shiny application.
This is not a Shiny demo, so I'm just going to leave it at that. This is how you can build applications in R.
I'm going to run that app and show you what that looks like.
Okay. So in the Shiny app, when I've blown it up so much, I can't really see it.
So let me open up a window here. There we go.
Okay. So this is Jesse, and I can go ahead and add in my Colorado and California, right?
And that's the name of Jesse. And you can see that Jesse is mostly a male name, right?
And there's some females named Jesse as well. So this is what the female view looks like here.
And the cool thing here is all of the names are in here. I can pick any name I want.
I picked Jesse because for some reason I was thinking about Uncle Jesse when I pulled the name.
And I was like, okay, Uncle Jesse was popular right about here.
So good job, John Stamos. You pretty much killed the name.
So if you want to pick a different name, though, like Rebecca, which I think was his love interest,
you can pick any name you want, which is really cool. This is a very simple app.
Now, if you want to share this application online, you do this with RStudio's product, which is RStudio Connect.
And so you can publish this thing with the push of a button, and then you can share it with other people.
And that becomes a very powerful tool to use in the enterprise, right?
You can also share the notebook, right? So here's the notebook that's also on Connect.
And this will allow you to keep track of your content and other people to collaborate to or to see what you're doing.
So that, in a nutshell, is size. I'm going to keep moving here because I'm going to run out of time.
The next thing I want to talk about was this quadrant here around where the workbook is too complex.
So we're going to toggle over and talk about something, a file that's pretty small, but the workbook ends up being really complicated.
So let me do that here. Come back to Excel. New data set. OK, this is a new data set.
This is about customer data. This is called a growth equation that breaks down revenue into constituent parts.
And it's got these cool little drop downs, right, where I can choose a segment.
I can choose a metric and I can either be, you know, year to date or whatnot.
And I worked really hard on this thing. This thing took a long time to build.
I mean, we're talking weeks to build this thing. Right. And this is actually the simplified view.
In all of its glory, it was actually a lot more sophisticated than this.
But basically, you pull some data in the pre-period. You pull some data in the post-period.
You write some lookups here, some offsets to get the data that you need based on the inputs here in the parameters table.
And then you pretty it up here and you do that every week and you mail it out.
And, you know, people that like it go, oh, cool. And they copy and paste it and they use it too.
Right now, there was a problem with this thing that I ran into.
And that was that it was really hard to maintain.
Like it was always changing and any change was very difficult to make.
And sometimes the data were really hard to get right because the data were coming in in such a way that even the smallest changes were hard to track down.
So this thing that was, you know, kind of my pride and joy, it ended up being kind of this taskmaster monster for me.
You know, I created this beast. And it's so much so that, well, anyway, I'll just leave it at that.
The best of attention sometimes don't plan out, pay out well.
And unfortunately, the bottom line here is that, you know, this took a lot of time and ultimately yielded, you know, the best result here was I became very good at Excel.
So there was that. But like from the business value perspective, I think the business value is a little bit off.
So let me show you what this looks like in R.
All right. So in R.
This is another application, a little hard to see here, but this is this is the application.
It's not it's it's really not that bad. It's it's not that bad of a shiny application.
Let me go ahead and run it.
So we're here. Here we go. Cool. So I can choose my segment. Right. I can choose.
I can do all the same stuff. Right. And I've got my output here, which is really nice.
And I can download the data set. Right. And this is really cool, because if I open up this thing, I actually get back to the Excel output.
Right. With the chart and the data. And I actually get the data that I used to create those metrics here.
So that's really that that's really nice, because then you're just pulling the exact data that you want and the users can do it themselves.
Now, again, this is something that you're probably going to want to publish to connect.
And this is what it looks like in connect. This is a tool where everybody can access it.
And honestly, you know, at this point, this is really fancy and nice, but I've kind of gone above and beyond.
But shiny apps are sexy and interesting because they're interactive. They're reactive. Right.
And people like that. But it doesn't have to be that way.
And there are some negatives to this as well, because getting this report means I have to like, you know, get in here to the application and get what I want and download it.
It's like sometimes you just want to email out your results. Right. It's like this is the report. Email it out.
Executives, they don't want to look at an app anyway. They just live in their email. So.
So in that situation, you use a report and the report here.
Looks like this. This is the arm markdown.
And this is actually a simpler thing to do, because you put all of your parameters here at the top and the header and then all of your stuff is here.
Now, one of the cool things I really like about this script is is stuff like this.
This shows me all my formulas. Right. Like anybody can read this. Anyone on this call can read this.
It's like, how do you define. Let's see, like, what is it like items like spend free. Right.
Well, it's the dollars free divided by the items free. That's how that's calculated.
That's a really nice way to look at your code. Right. So if you want to knit this thing, come up here to knit with parameters.
You can just choose, you know, the things here like shiny.
This is actually a shiny gadget. Get this thing and it will give you the report that you want.
And this is actually a little easier to maintain. And if you put this into if you put the same report into connect.
You can do this really cool thing where you can like email yourself. So this is that same important connect.
I'm going to send that email. You can come up here. You can choose the parameters that you want.
So it's all cool. Right. So you don't even need to connect to do is actually like you can easily just generate these reports from the code.
And and this is what they look like on the mail system.
Right. So they come across looking like this where you get this nice, you know, body and you get the down the attachments here.
OK. So this report, this code here, let me come back to the code.
This code here, I dusted off that thing that took like weeks and weeks to build and I recreated it from the ground up and are in about six hours.
From six weeks to six hours, literally. OK. So when we talk about complexity, that's what I'm talking about.
Like writing the code here like are that. Things complex workbooks just become simple.
And they become more. I would argue to be more accurate to at least in my experience.
But they become a lot simpler. OK. So in summary here. How do you scale spreadsheets and are.
Boy, that takes a long time. Again, I got to do a presentation on PowerPoint.
OK. How do you scale spreadsheets that are by using powerful coding tools that make your work reproducible and communicate with apps and notebooks?
So if you know you're ever in a situation or if you've ever been in a situation where you feel like your hands are being burned in your Excel notebooks or you're like sweating to get through the Excel notebooks.
I would suggest that, hey, maybe there's a better way. Right. Maybe there's another tool.
And here Zog has a stick. Right. So Zog's actually figured out a better way to deal with the fire. Right.
So this boundary, hopefully this boundary is a little bit clearer. I think I know I drew it as a hard line.
I actually think that's a pretty wide spectrum. Right. I think there's a pretty big difference between what spot you're going to move from Excel to R.
But hopefully this presentation has helped clarify why you would use R instead of Excel, even in the event you're not doing like a bunch of random forests.
Right. Even in the event where you just need to do some regular old data science exploration.
So the last thing I will say is that in this R space, you know, you're doing data science.
You know, you can do data science in Excel. Right. You can do it in R. And Excel is a great tool.
It's got it's Turing complete. Right. It's got power query built into it. Right.
You can publish things to Power BI. You know, you can.
You've got the visual basic in the back end, which is not really my cup of tea, but it is a programming language and it works.
You can version control itself. You can do all those things in Excel.
The nice one of the nice things about R is it really clarifies when you're using the code.
And I'm going to suggest to you that, you know, in data science, the source for all your results really is your code.
It's not it's not the report. It's not the output, but it's the process that you use to get the code.
So in Excel, if you think about Excel and you like share some output from Excel or like in part.
So you take some pivot tables from Excel and put them in the PowerPoint. So that's nice.
That output is really valuable. But the source for that was the process that you went through to get that information.
It was querying your micro strategy with a specific query and then loading it up and then doing some manipulation,
doing some cleaning, like doing some explorations, building some charts.
That whole process is where the value is in data science. And when you use things like R scripting or code or scripting language,
like you get that part as a natural part of the process. OK, so that's some references here.
And I'm going to pause and see what questions. I'm happy to help read the questions and just wanted to let people know, again,
that we do have the Slido link for questions, too. So you can either ask with your name and or ask it live or ask anonymously.
But, Christina, I see you just asked the question around what if the executive wants the report for every combination of parameters?
Do you have strategies to iterate through them and generate a full PDF report?
And Christina, feel free to jump in and add any other context to if you want to.
Yeah, so if your executive wants every combination, it sounds like your executive wants to do data science.
You can build tools for that executive to do the data science. And that's what you would do with the shiny application.
You build a shiny application and you put that out there. Yeah, it sounds like you have a very interesting executive.
My experience is executives usually they want the bottom line.
And so you might be an opportunity here to, you know, help the executive do some his own analysis.
Well, this is it's Christina's my wife, but this is Casey.
So what we actually do are Tableau dashboards, but then we also have to publish all like we have to do all the filters for like every combination, basically.
And then we have this like C++ program that takes web shots of all of them and like puts this report together.
And it's a really complicated process. That's what that's what I was getting at with that.
Oh, that's so interesting. I actually I actually took that part of this presentation out, but I gave this so I can send you a link.
Another version of this presentation actually does the web shots, puts them into PowerPoint presentations programmatically and would allow you to do something like that.
I think that the so Tableau is a great tool.
Tableau and RStudio products are basically solving the same problem. It's just that R is doing it with code and Tableau is not.
So I'd be surprised if there were things that you're doing in Tableau that you couldn't do above and beyond R.
But the thing that you mentioned, we're talking about like programmatically pulling all combinations and doing web shots, putting them in a presentation.
Yes, that's all possible. And I've done it.
Thank you.
Thank you. And one question I saw that quickly got two upvotes on Slido.
Leo asked, could you please show a quick step by step to achieve that awesome email with the graph and formatted table?
Oh, you want to see how the email is created? Yeah. Yeah, I can do that.
I can do that. And as you go back and I'll do the PowerPoint thing, too.
I appreciate the interest in the code.
Let's see, what did I do?
OK, so in the R Markdown version, it's going to look like this.
I'm going to compose the email right here. And what's the name of this package?
Blastula is the package that you're looking for. And then DT is another one that you're looking for.
No, no, GT, GT, not DT, GT, Grammar of Tables and Blastula.
But this is where I put in the subject line.
Right. And this is where I define the plot. And then I compose the email.
This might look like comments, but this is all being recognized by R, right?
So this is like actually pulling in the things in R and inserting them into the content of the document.
And you can read all about that in the Blastula help site. And then on the R Markdown side, you have to attach the subject line here.
So this is the subject line. This is the body. These are images and these are attachments.
So the XLS file gets attached here in the R Markdown file. Makes sense.
So what that's going to this is all the email.
Now, I also make the XLS file here available as a link to the report.
And this is an RStudio Connect feature, but because I can make that work really nicely.
But this is I think what you're looking for.
I wanted to just briefly mention, since I didn't take out the PowerPoint thing, I just want to make sure that you're aware that when we do like a presentation here on R Markdown,
if you come here to presentation on R Markdown, one of the options is PowerPoint.
So you can actually generate PowerPoints here. And then in PowerPoint, going back to the web shots, you can put web shots in here to like, you know, pick up the things that you're trying to insert into the PowerPoint.
What else?
I see a conversation in the Zoom chat right now on Cassandra asked what level of security is available and using RStudio and a shiny app because they work in the treasury with sensitive banking information.
And I see someone else also works in banking, too.
So we take security very seriously at RStudio.
It's always been my, so I've been able to be around for a while and I used to process all the security reviews when I first started.
It was a tiny company, so I had to go through all that.
But it became very clear to me early on that we don't have a company without secure software.
So I'm not saying that we've got everything, you know, figured out because it's an ongoing process.
But I will tell you that, you know, we have onboarded hundreds of customers that have had a variety of security needs and we haven't lost any deals specifically because security.
So I come into support here and I do security.
There's package security, security package downloads.
I think this is probably a good place.
So SSL, right.
Cross-origin resource sharing, right.
So if there's specific questions, too, I'm always happy to take that offline and help connect you with the right person internally.
I'll just put my email there, too, if it's useful.
Yeah, no, I think the general question is, you know, can I trust, you know, my shiny applications?
And keep in mind that normally these shiny applications are used for internal purposes.
Like normally you are like you're putting this behind your firewall.
So that's usually the standard you're looking for.
It's like, is it secure?
Thanks, Nathan.
I see another anonymous question that was Excel may be considered as interactive app for data analysis.
How do you help Excel users successfully transition to a shiny app developer?
Well, yeah, you're in luck.
I mean, there are a lot of resources around learning to do shiny.
So if you go to, what is it, shiny.arcstudio.com, that's a great place to get started.
The creator of shiny is Joe Chang.
And shiny is 10 years old now.
It's been around for a while.
But the cool thing about shiny is that it was designed to fail nicely.
So Joe talks about the pit of success, right.
So you might make a mistake, but shiny is going to be nice to you, you know, when you make that mistake.
It will find something else to do or it will give you a warning or, you know,
it will help you try to figure out the best way to do it.
So the way if you're transitioning to shiny, be nice to yourself, start simple,
and then just follow the patterns and fall into that pit of success.
I say that myself because I'm not the world's best shiny app developer.
My background is in big data, right, as opposed to front-end application design.
But I have learned that just going with the patterns, going with the flow,
you're going to have a pretty gentle ride with shiny.
And if you do have problems, go to community.arcstudio.com.
There's a lot of resources on the community site about doing shiny.
And you can ask questions like you would in a stack overflow type of situation.
I think it can also be helpful to check out the shiny gallery too, and I'll put that in the chat.
Definitely.
But it can give you a good starting point if you see something that's kind of like what you want to do
and go from there.
I will point out one thing that's interesting about shiny is that reactive nature
is very similar to the Excel paradigm, right?
So in Excel, you change one cell and it just trickles through the whole spreadsheet
and can just have massive changes to the experience.
Shiny is the same way.
You'll change one thing and it will just reactively, like, percolate through the entire application.
It's cool.
It's cool stuff.
Another question on Slido from Josh was tools such as GitHub, SQL, Power BI, Tableau, Excel.
Curious your thoughts on these tools as they don't seem to be emphasized enough
with respect to their use in the workplace.
These tools.
I'm struggling with that question a little bit because I deal with customers on a daily basis
and it seems like everybody's using those tools.
So we get so many questions about that.
And SQL has been such a dominant paradigm for so long.
I was joking with my friends.
I've worked with no SQL databases for quite a while, right?
No structured things like Tableau or Redis.
There's always some sort of SQL-ness around it.
You're like, hi, it's not even SQL, but they put HQL on top of it.
So I think SQL is one of the most enduring paradigms in technology that I'm aware of.
And don't bet against it.
I think it's great.
I think everyone should.
SQL is just a skill that's great to have.
I don't want to riff too long on this because I could go on,
but I think one of the problems with SQL in general, with the world,
is very few people get formalized SQL training.
I was lucky enough to get that.
So I learned SQL on the job.
Nobody in academia talks about SQL, right?
I shouldn't say nobody, but nobody in my experience in academia ever mentions anything about SQL.
And then I go into the job and that's all anybody was doing.
So I learned SQL that way.
But then I actually did take a training class on SQL
and then talked about the query planners, right,
and other clauses that maybe you're not so familiar with.
And window functions and different styles of it.
And that was very useful.
So if you really wanted to do something hardcore, you can get formalized training.
I don't think it's necessary,
but if it makes you feel like more of an expert or feel better about your skills,
those things are out there.
Josh, let us know if we missed anything in that question, too.
Feel free to jump in.
If I could kind of just clarify, I think you did end up touching on what I meant.
There's a limit on the words or letters you can use.
So with R, I learned a lot about R through school.
Barely was exposed to any of the other tools.
So it seems now that I'm backtracking to learn the other tools to match my use with R,
but I would barely use R in the workplace.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, that makes sense.
That makes a lot of sense.
So are you missing R or wanting R to integrate with those other solutions?
Yeah, I guess I'm just wondering your thoughts on the emphasis around the other tools
because they do seem like SQL and Excel seems like something you'll want to,
especially Excel, master that before you master R based on its use in the workplace.
I think R is a niche programming language mostly used by scientists who are seeking the truth.
And if you still go to the R project page today,
it'll say it's a language for statistical computing and visualization.
And how many companies are sitting around thinking,
I need some statistical computing visualization software around here.
That's not what they're thinking.
They've got data.
They've got operations.
They've got BI.
They've got these big systems.
They've got these enterprise requirements, right?
So it's not a surprise that, like, in academia, you're using R to do science and learning,
and then the industry is using more enterprise tools.
That doesn't surprise me at all.
I think one of the, yeah, I could keep going on here.
I think one of the reasons why I wanted to join RStudio was to help bridge that gap.
But I think, yeah, Josh, you and I should grab a cup of coffee and talk.
I hear you.
Yeah, that sounds great.
I'd love to jump in on that party if I can because I'm a similar boat.
I'll schedule a virtual coffee if anyone wants to come.
Can I join in?
Because that's exactly what I'm struggling with.
What are you struggling with, Maria?
Yeah, well, that's exactly the gap, the gap that you were talking about.
Yeah, the gap, like, we're talking about the gap between, like,
we're talking about evangelizing R, showing, like, why R is relevant in the enterprise.
Is that where you're getting at?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, Rachel, that's been a good fight for a long time.
Do you want to respond to that?
You're doing a lot of that work right now.
Yeah, definitely.
That's exactly what I want to help teams with, so I'm going to say in the chat right now,
message me if you want to get in on that virtual coffee.
But we should set that up and chat more about it.
I don't want to kind of overtake this talk with that, but maybe it should be another topic.
I wrote a post many years ago when I first joined RStudio about making R legitimate in your organization,
and the tenets of that was to make a decision and allocate resources.
So you're looking for a stakeholder, usually someone very senior in your organization,
to say, we will consider R to be an analytic standard, and we're going to support it,
just like we would SQL or these other tools that we're talking about.
And then if you can get resources allocated to them, whether it be, like, you know,
like a server, like money resources or software, or you get individuals, like saying,
we're going to train these individuals on those things, that's what you're looking for, right?
And that's the natural process in most organizations to recognize standards.
And they're just – because R is fairly small, it just hasn't gone through that process.
There's an assumption that R is – that data science is things that people do on their laptops with free software, right?
And I think that greatly undermines the value of data science.
I think that – and it's, you know, Josh pointed out, well, what about Tableau, right?
And what about Power BI? Power BI is a little different than Microsoft, right?
So Microsoft is a different thing. But, you know, all these other tools.
Well, if you brought Tableau into your organization, somebody went up in there and said,
we're going to make Tableau an analytic standard for this organization,
we're going to allocate resources for it.
You have to do the same thing with the R programming language.
Say, like, this is – this should be legit.
But that's all in that post. I know that Rachel – yeah.
I'm going to stop talking now, Rachel.
I'm happy to keep that conversation going.
But, Nathan, I was actually – I actually didn't even tell you this yet,
but I was going through that post trying to think about how we could revamp that.
And so I may as well just share it with you all here and figure –
if you have comments on things that Nathan and I could include there or things that would be useful.
It's based off of Nathan's original article on making R a legitimate part of your company.
Yeah, so I'd actually – oh, go ahead. Who was talking? Maria?
Oh, yeah. That was Nathan's email to Rachel.
Because that is exactly what I'm seeing.
Like, you know, we all have that picture of, like, you know, our person, like, you know, in glasses.
Like, you're just doing some really awesome things which nobody really needs.
But we don't realize there's, like, just one hand's away.
Like, lots of things are so much easier there.
I think most organizations want to do things.
I think you said, like, nobody needs.
My experience is that most organizations aren't very data-driven, right?
And there's a spectrum.
But they want to be, and they know that it's relevant.
I think going through the process of saying, like, you know, R,
you take all the emotions out of it and say, like, you have a business to run, right?
We're talking just enterprise.
We have a business to run.
R is a competitive advantage.
It brings in great people.
It allows you to use technologies.
It needs support.
You're already using C Sharp, and you're using some Python, and you're using Java.
Why not use R?
And those are arguments that you can win.
I've done it – I mean, that's been my history.
I've done this multiple times with past organizations.
You can win those arguments because it makes sense, right?
It's, like, you take the emotion of the people out of it.
You can say, like, hey, we need this thing, right?
And, you know, organizations will struggle a little bit because they don't –
a lot of them don't get data science.
We don't understand what you guys are doing, right?
But that's changing.
That's all changing, right?
Like, that's, you know, AI algorithm or, like, common vernacular now in the world.
Like, you know, my grandma's passed on, but if I had a grandma still,
she would know what AI was, and she would be pretty ticked off about algorithms
for some reason.
And data science is mainstream now.
Most of them are not data-driven at all.
And for them, it's one extra step that they need to do.
And, you know, like, people are lazy.
They don't really want to do an extra step if they can, like –
if they don't have to.
So before they realize all the benefits, they need to do effort.
Yeah, yeah.
There's usually some sort of fulcrum, and getting that executive sponsor is key.
Like, if there's no executive sponsor, no one's willing to actually say,
yes, this is what we're going to do, then you really – you're back in that –
you're back in the guerrilla warfare, right?
You're just back in there, like, doing stuff and, you know,
throwing something against the wall and hoping it sticks, right?
And I have to say, like, if you're in that organization,
there are better organizations than that, right?
Like, if you're looking to, like, make an impact, make a difference,
and improve your skills, like, why would you want to be in an organization
that didn't value data science, right?
Because that's – I don't know.
Again, things have changed.
Like, when I was starting my career, I just had to find a job somewhere that –
and data science and modeling were only known to a very small group of people.
You're just, like, looking for those people.
I looked at job listings all over the place, and there's, like,
a ton of opportunities now.
So it's still changing, but I don't – yeah, anyway,
I don't get organizations that, you know,
just don't want to give their data scientists any resources.
Like, maybe you don't want to be a part of that organization.
That's just – that's my feeling on it.
So better organizations is our hiring?
What's that? Who?
There's better organizations is our hiring?
You mean RStudio?
Yes.
RStudio has hired a ton of people.
Like, almost a new – a person's coming in almost every day right now.
Yeah.
So check the job listings and, yeah.
Offer internships to international students.
But lots of students here are, like, sitting and waiting for that,
and, like, you're sort of downgrading, like,
and we have to pay you versus no time to pay?
I will say that we don't do a lot of data science at RStudio, right,
because we're not a data – we're not a data organization.
We build software, right?
So that's our – our output is software, not data.
So if you think about the things I showed you today, like the tracker,
you know, the customer data, like, yeah, we don't have that type of data.
Nathan, I know we're a little bit over, but there's still quite a few questions.
I was wondering if it's okay if we go over a little bit.
Yeah, no, I'm happy to hang on here.
This has been really – yeah,
really rewarding in ways that I can't possibly explain right now.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Nathan.
And also on that topic of, like, hiring and companies that use R as well,
on community.rstudio.com there is also, like, a jobs and gigs section
where a lot of our customers and open source or pro post their jobs.
But also for people who are in this position of trying to convince internally,
you are definitely not alone.
So I don't think the only answer is going somewhere else,
so we'd love to chat more about how we can help with that too.
But one of the questions from earlier, Nathan,
was what packages do you recommend for importing Excel files?
Well, yeah, the easy one was, you know, for importing Excel files.
Oh, geez.
Should have done my homework to see what's out there now.
Wasn't there, like, a readxls and then there's, like, an xlsx package as well?
Yeah, you know, that's a miss in my presentation
because I was showing how to read in the flat files.
But, yeah, just reading those things are pretty straightforward.
Let me – let's see.
Everyone in the chat is confirming that it is readxl.
So it's – okay, so if I come in here to environment, import dataset from Excel.
Yeah, readxl is the one that's used by default.
There are others.
I thought there was an xlsx package at some point, but that's the one.
That's the one that RStudio obviously recommends.
And then another question from earlier was, can you version control Excel?
I think maybe we mentioned that.
Yeah, the one I'm familiar with is a paid solution, though.
So you actually have to, like, subscribe to it.
It's an enterprise solution, which makes sense, right,
because Excel is an enterprise tool.
Like, you have to pay for it.
So I kind of agree with that.
That's one of the nice things about R is that it is free, right?
So if you want to use it, you can start it easily.
But, yeah, there are ways – yeah, there are tools to do that.
I can't recommend them because I haven't used them.
But last – a few months ago they released some new function
that made it Turing complete, you know.
So it's like Excel is there forever.
And it's not just Excel either, right?
It's also Google Sheets, and it's also OpenOffice, right?
So it's like you actually have three, you know,
spreadsheet platforms to choose from that are common.
I need to let me go if I just can quickly.
Sure.
My experience is I've been using R and R Marginal for three years,
using it in the enterprise business.
I first started people introducing – getting them to know R,
but that was a little step too big.
But once I introduced them to R Markdown,
they could see the link with Excel very easily, very straightforward.
And they love R Markdown, and it connects with them, with Excel,
because you can work in the R chunks and generate nice reports easily,
do it step by step.
And that is my experience.
And how I use it now in the enterprise, I use it in the oil and gas,
I use it in the marketing business,
is they have these ERP systems, SAP, Microsoft Dynamics,
and when they have to do reporting with those systems,
it is very cumbersome.
And when they use R Markdown,
they extract the data from the backend, put it in a small database,
access the data with R Markdown, then it is for them easy peasy.
Really, they can generate fantastic reports, and they love it.
At least my experience.
Yeah, I appreciate that feedback.
I'd be really – so I showed the visual editor today on the demo.
It broke at one point, which was unfortunate.
It's new.
I'd be curious to know your feedback introducing these same people
to visual editor.
That actually made things even better for them.
Yes.
They like it.
Yeah.
They don't like R, but they like R Markdown.
They love R Markdown.
Well, I mean, R Markdown, you've got R code chunks inside of R Markdown,
so you can't really use R Markdown without R, right?
Yes.
But you're saying they don't like the R script.
They don't like the R script.
They like the R Markdown.
It's easier to understand, to connect with Excel, all things work.
Yeah.
I like it.
I like it because you – I just have too many experiences where I wrote R code
and I came back six months later and I couldn't understand what the heck
I was thinking.
Like I hardly recognized it was me, you know.
And R Markdown at least gives you some opportunity to say,
this is what I'm thinking.
This is why I'm doing this.
This is what you should expect here.
And, yeah, that's really valuable just to me personally, right,
like me as a coder.
And then if you layer on all the things that are beneficial to other people.
And what I also like is about the different output formats that you can
easily generate with R Markdown.
You can make an HTML, you can make a dashboard, you can make a PDF,
you can make whatever you wish.
Yeah.
I showed the PowerPoint and I showed the HTML, but, yeah,
the PDF is really nice.
You're right.
Thanks for the plug.
Yeah.
There's a comment here about R Java.
I kind of agree with that one.
That's a real pain.
Hopefully I try to avoid R Java when I can.
The one area of Java that I have a hard time avoiding is Spark.
Spark depends on Java.
And guess what?
Spark and Java.
Spark is kind of difficult, you know, because of Java.
Nathan, for the slides that you shared,
will I be able to share that with the recording as well?
Yeah, of course.
You have those posted somewhere?
Absolutely.
Can I put one thing?
I couldn't get into the presentation because we were talking about Excel,
but everything I showed on the presentation today was all file-based, right?
And there's another type of data that we didn't get into at all that would
be interesting to do, and that's machine data.
So things are coming from databases, right?
So when I built this presentation, I kept thinking about the data sources.
I couldn't quite work it into this presentation.
But if your data are coming from Excel,
meaning that the original source of your data actually is Excel,
so somebody got into Excel and inputted the data,
then you're in Excel land.
You're not in R land.
I mean, you're going to be in Excel for quite a while.
But if your data source is a database
and you're pulling tables from a database,
then I think the jump to R is actually a lot easier.
And I personally would probably bypass Excel in most cases, right?
I know there's Power Query and all that stuff, right?
But if I'm getting machine data, and that's not just databases,
but that's like APIs, right, or some sort of streaming feed,
or even just curling information from the website, all of those things,
I would start thinking R, personally.
I couldn't quite figure that into the presentation,
because the presentation was very much file-based, right?
And when you have files, I think figuring out where to go, R or Excel,
it's kind of like, I got this CSV.
Do I open the CSV in R or Excel?
I don't know, you know?
I'll default to Excel, right?
That's a much fuzzier thing.
But when it's databases, right, go R.
Anyway, thanks for listening.
Oh, definitely.
A follow-up question there was, can R work directly within a database?
Yeah, that's the right guy.
So, yeah.
So, if you come here to RStudio,
and you do Connections and New Connection here.
Yeah, these are all the database connections, right?
So, you probably, I don't know if people use Snowflake out there,
but this is a Snowflake connection.
And then it will populate right here into the connection window,
and you can browse things.
So, let's see if I open up my Maria database.
Let's see if this is still active.
Maria is like a frozen version of Postgres.
SQL, yep.
Oh, demo.
Sorry, demo.
Test table here.
This is the Iris dataset.
And I'll go ahead and pull that up.
There you go.
So, this Iris data are inside.
So, this is inside of the database here.
If I want to pull that data into Excel,
I can do that with the DDI package or the require package.
I'll try to make that easy for you.
One of my main goals when I joined our studio was to make that easier.
A follow-up question there, Nathan,
was have you ever connected to any bank portals?
And I know you've worked with a lot of our financial customers.
Bank portals.
Man, I don't even know what we're talking about.
What's a bank portal?
Like, banks keep their data really locked down.
We're not getting into the blockchain, are we?
Give me an example of a bank portal.
We work with some banks, and they usually have,
their databases are usually pretty traditional.
You're looking like a DB2 database or something like that.
But I guess I'd need more information.
She said, like, Bank of America using an API.
Yeah.
Well, there's lots of ways to interface with APIs through R.
So, again, I need a little bit more information.
But, yeah, the bank group, the banks are,
those environments can be very restrictive, right?
So usually my experience with the bank,
it's not the tools that are the problem,
it's the policies that are the problem, right?
So I think what I've seen a lot of banks do is make it very difficult
to solve problems, right?
So it's like, we can't solve this problem
because we have all these restrictions, right?
And so what ends up happening is that users kind of find a way
to get around those barriers and those problems.
Like, maybe they'll just download the data to their desktop, you know,
and just kind of email that around or something like that.
But I'm not privy to any of that because we don't do that.
Everything at RStudio as an enterprise software company is all about board.
So, like, those security decisions,
that security conversation that we talked about,
those all have to be answered by us because we're assuming
that we're coming through the front door.
But my understanding is talking to the people at the bank,
there's a lot of backdoor activity going on by the employees.
So I guess I need a little bit more information
to help you do a black ops operation there, your big portal API calls.
And Nathan, one of the questions on Slido was how can we connect with you
to chat about other topics like enterprise solutions
or architecting workflows?
Yeah, it just brings joy to my life.
I'd love to connect with any of you.
Let's see, the best way to do this.
My email is Nathan at RStudio.com.
And I'm on LinkedIn, of course.
I used to have Twitter, but I've kind of uncoupled
from Twitter and Facebook.
So I'd say the email or the LinkedIn is probably fine.
I'm also on community.rstudio.com.
You can find me there, too.
Awesome.
I see one other question that came in from Rafael.
Can we connect R directly for any,
and I'm assuming this means database, the DDBB,
and visualize real-time data?
So connecting R to any database and visualizing real-time.
I'm not sure what a DDBB is.
I know what a DB is.
It's a database.
So I'm going to assume that means a database, Rafael.
Yes, if you want to hook up like a Shiny application to a live database,
that is very common.
We have a lot of customers doing that.
And there are some resources online for doing that.
You'll have to make sure you have permissions to connect to that database.
But what you normally do is you run the Shiny application either as yourself
or as a service account that has permissions to access that database.
And then the tools are you're just going to use the same R tools
to pull that data in depending on the user inputs.
So, for example, say I'm a user
and I want to like access my Oracle database
and I want to pull in like the latest sales data, you know.
You'll go in there and like put a date range,
and that date range will pass through SQL and the driver
and pull that data back and populate the Shiny application.
Very, very common request.
Very common use case for Shiny.
Okay, DDBB is database.
Okay, I lied when I said last question before.
One other question.
Antonia Lee said, I'm new to R and the dopamine rush is so rewarding.
What's the best way to start getting your hands messy?
Is there a site with cases to start analyzing data?
Oh, man, that's going to make me cry.
Okay, so, yes, I hear you.
I see what you see.
R speaks to me as well, right?
There are a lot of people that do that.
I just tell people that like I will just pull up R on the weekend
and just kick around a few ideas in my head.
I'll just do it for fun, you know.
I want to try this thing.
If you've ever used like Sass,
I can't imagine pulling Sass up on the weekend.
I don't know any Sass user who sits around Saturday morning like,
I wonder if Sass can do this thing, right?
So, there is something special about R,
and if it's speaking to you, that's fantastic.
Now, I lost the question.
Was it like getting started?
How do you get started?
Rachel, you can answer that question.
So, the question is like where to find cases to start with analyzing data,
but I do think, and Jake shared this in the chat as well,
but Tidy Tuesday, I think, is a great project.
So, every week, Tuesday, there's a new data set released,
so then people kind of visualize that data
and then share it out on Twitter for other people to see.
I know a few other people said try taking Coursera's course on R.
There's also a lot of great resources at education.rstudio.com, too.
But, yeah, if anyone has ideas, feel free to put them in the chat, too.
I think necessity is the mother of invention for me.
I wouldn't go out.
I mean, you can go to Kaggle and do that competition if you want.
That could be fun.
But, like, if you have data, like, that's where things get really, you know,
that's where you really get the motivation to do stuff.
So, if you have the opportunity to seek out that data
and, like, seek out a problem that matters, that's where I learn the most.
You know, it's like I got a challenge now.
It's real, yeah.
But Tidy Tuesday is an awesome suggestion, Rachel.
I just want to check if there's any questions that I missed from the Zoom chat.
I'm just scrolling through, but I don't know if I missed anything earlier.
R for data science.
Yeah, there's some books, right?
Yep.
Link for Tidy Tuesday.
I think it might just be TidyTuesday.com.
I'm just checking real quick, though.
Education.rstudio.
Yeah, I mean, I think RStudio has done a nice job of, you know,
expanding the ecosystem.
I mean, there's just a lot of pieces in the ecosystem now.
It's really nice.
When I was starting R, this isn't going to date me, guys,
but I started using R pre-Google, okay?
So, like, finding information about R back then was almost impossible.
And then when Google did come out, it wasn't smart enough to distinguish
between, like, R, the programming language, and the letter R.
So, it's like you put R in there and it was a worthless search, you know?
You'll still see issues now with R getting conflated with Reddit, right?
Like, R something and sometimes you'll get Reddit as a result.
So, Google still struggles with that.
But generally speaking, yeah,
searching out there is going to return a lot of really great stuff.
And we'll also just put a plug out there for rweekly.org as well.
Does a really nice job of pulling in blog posts
and different materials every week.
There's a lot of stuff, a lot of publishing going on.
Matt Dancho, Mr. Dancho.
Daniel, you must know Matt.
Say hi to Matt for me.
Also, I know we kind of just started off with an intro.
So, scaling spreadsheets with R.
But if there are specific topics that you'd want to dive deeper into,
I'm going to just sign Nathan up for those.
Yeah, Aaron asked if I started with the S programming language.
And the answer to that is yes, I did.
But I did include a form there, too,
if you have any feedback or things that you'd like to see.
I'll try and copy that over again.
But I just want to say thank you so much, Nathan.
That was awesome.
I really appreciate it.
I can't tell you how appreciative I am of this.
I feel like this was just a wonderful opportunity.
So, thank you all. Thank you, Rachel. Thank you, Maria.
Thank you so much, Maria, for bringing this idea to us as well.
And thank you all for joining.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I think that's just the start.
We have so many people going for that virtual coffee.
So, I think that was an awesome opportunity to connect
not only our lovers, and there's Excel format lovers,
but also to connect continents.
So, that virtual coffee is going to spread out between Australia and the U.S.
That's awesome.
Yeah, definitely. And I just said, if people are interested,
please just email me directly so I have your email
because Meetup doesn't give me people's email.
So, I just put my email there.
Thank you.
But thank you all so much. Have a great day ahead,
depending on where you are. Have a great evening.
So, I have my students here. So, we are moving on to our class.
And we have another half an hour of absolutely fantastic things to do.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.